# The "Ideological Rear-Guard Action" and "Tactical Schizophrenia"

Growing up in the United States, I have had a front-row seat to the gradual retreat and surrender of the GOP, and the impending self-destruction of the United States itself. Unfortunately, as I went through University/worked the last few years, I've begun to see the ever-present, and pernicious cultural dominance of the United States in Ireland/Europe. It's become increasingly clear that this American influence, if left unchecked, will lead us into the same turmoil currently on display in the US.

In my short time since putting my voice out there, I've been encouraged by what I've seen. Given the general state of things, Ireland is still in a fairly good position. People, broadly speaking, are awake and see what's going on. They may not be making the right connections, or coming away with the right conclusions, but there is massive potential. We in the movement, who know what's *really* going on, need to step into the void and harness that energy into a positive, coherent vision. It may not always seem like it, but we are in a much better position than many other countries. We have time, but that's no excuse to relent - we must continue to press the issue.

Now, on to the important bit: Given my background, and given what we're going up against (ideology, talking points, etc straight out of the USA), I have a few ideas/recommendations I'd like to explore.

> "You merely adopted the Diversity. I was born in it, moulded by it. I didn't see homogeneity until I was already a man, and by then it was nothing to me but eye-opening."


## The Perpetual Rear-Guard Action

Since 1945, the main theme of the Western right has been a gradual retreat and capitulation. Conservative leaders will occasionally win elections, but they don't *change* anything. They don't change the overall trajectory of the society. The unending march leftward continues, albeit at a slower pace. This is where the term "ideological rear-guard action" was born.

A military term, especially popular during the Napoleonic era, used to describe a relatively small detachment of your army whose objective is to cover the main force's movements. Instead of the opposition falling on you main force, triggering a decisive battle on unfavourable terms, the rear-guard keeps the opposition at arms length. The ultimate goal of the rear-guard action is to buy time/space to fall back to a more favourable position. Once reached, you'd be able to reorganise, and counter your opponent. However, what purpose does a rear-guard serve if you're never going to reorganise and attack?

This is the critical mistake that is being made on the right throughout the West. They are abandoning positions all over the place, but to what end? There is no follow-up, there is no evolution. Look no further than the GOP in the US over the last 10 years. They've abandoned opposition to Gay marriage, BLM, "criminal justice reform", etc - yet, the GOP still drones on about REGULATION, SOCIALISM, BIG GOVERNMENT, TAXES. What problems are these issues addressing? What support and excitement is being generated by these positions? 

In 2016, Trump offered a way forward for the GOP. Anti-immigration, populism, America First. Positions that are popular, and generate lots of excitement throughout America. Most note-worthy, issues that are overwhelmingly popular amongst White Americans. This is what *should* have happened. The GOP should have recognised that it will never win over non-White voters (who vote 75-95% Democrat), and instead pivot to becoming the 'White' party (who vote 50-60% Republican). They needed to spot what was *actually* important and act on it. They should have abandoned opposition to gay marriage and replaced it with support for green energy and ambitious pro-family policies. They should have abandoned their shilling for big business (who all support, and donate money to the left) and replaced it with economic populism - investing in infrastructure, and rebuilding America's manufacturing base. They should have offered amnesty, criminal justice reform, even reparations in exchange for Balkanisation. Creative thinking that flips the current paradigm on its head, and redefines the battlefield. If you find yourself in an unfavourable position, redefine your position, and go on the offensive.

Instead, the GOP, and Trump reverted back to the same pre-Trump strategies. They talked about low taxes, small government, SOCIALISM, and tried to remind minorities about their RECORD LOW unemployment rate as much as possible. No emphasis on their actual base, their actual voters. The result? We'll find out for sure in November, but I'm predicting a blood bath for the GOP.

Any party in Europe, including Ireland needs to take note of this. Relying on a tactical issue to deliver you a slim victory might work here and there (anti-LGBT in Poland), but in order to have broad success, you need to flip the table. In order to reverse the meta-trend that will eventually defeat you, you need to embrace positive change that people can get behind. You need to be bold, imaginative, push the pace, and develop a platform that addresses the needs of the people and the state. 

Our enemies are not very capable when it comes to policy, we can see the mismanagement all around us. Out compete them, out think them. We aren't the one-dimensional, dim-witted caricatures they think we are.


## Have It Your Way: Tactical Schizophrenia

Another term of my own creation, "Tactical Schizophrenia", refers to the intentional dissemination of a vast array of arguments/ways of reasoning your way to a given end-state. Due to its wide range of approach vectors, it will have the ability to appeal to people across the political spectrum. Typically this happens in a very dynamic, decentralised organisation.

A great example of Tactical Schizophrenia is BLM. All parties involved have a common goal: grow support for BLM. However, the method and reasoning to reach that point varies greatly based on who is doing the talking. If you're a progressive, you talk about systemic white supremacy, and dismantling it. If you're a moderate, you talk about the need for accountability, and 'reasonable' reforms. If you're a teacher, talk about bias and the need for cultural training. All of these arguments are meant for different people from different backgrounds, but the end-state is the same. By diversifying the approach, you increase the probability that a given person finds the argument that "makes sense" to them for that given issue.

We would do well to utilise this tactic. For instance, we can all agree that we want to decrease immigration, especially from certain countries. However, the ways you can arrive at that conclusion are infinite:

* **Greens**: Build the [environmental case against immigration](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0Sbr2gonz-M). Talk about how immigration drives huge population centre expansion, energy demand, food demand, etc.
* **FFG/Centrist Pragmatism**: Talk about the unemployment rate amongst these groups, and how it's economically unsustainable to have a growing proportion of people from that background. Mention how Irish/European race relations are controlled from the US, and how that presents massive threats to our societies.
* **Nationalism**: Talk about how Ireland exists for the protection and preservation of the Irish people. By definition, immigration of any large degree is an assault on the very foundation of the state.
* **Progressivism/Anti-racism**: Talk about the neo-colonialism of our current immigration policies. Taking trained nurses, doctors, engineers, etc from developing countries (who desperately need those trained people) to prop up our economy, pensions, and health service. Ireland, who suffered from centuries of emigration is not "paying it forward" by inflicting the same pain on Nigeria, Syria, etc.
* **Immigrant/Foreign Agitators**: Appeal to their ethnic pride - out 'woke' them. Instead of coming at them with the "you'll never be Irish" line, ask them "why do you even want to be Irish?" Why do they want to be accepted as "Irish" by the White man? Why do they want to conform to a White identity? Only sell-out POC want to be "Irish". Furthermore, this can be applied to immigration too. Instead of coming at it from a negative "you're going to destroy Ireland", appeal by saying "why do you want to leave Africa to serve the White man?" Nurses leave Nigeria, where they could improve the lives of their people, so they can change the diaper of the elderly White man. Instead of building a future for their people, they're paying taxes so 'racist' boomers can get their pension paid, and the diaper changed. If you attack someone over something, they are naturally going to get defensive. If you say "you'll never be Irish", you're choosing 'Irish-ness', and our identity as the battleground. Instead, make it about their identity.

Like the takeaway from the "Rear-guard" section above, this is primarily a way to "flip the script". Most of our "normal" vectors of attack are easily picked up as such and ignored. People have been programmed to hone in on arguments like "Ireland is for the Irish" or "If you don't like it, then leave" and react to them with hostility. Even though we all agree with those statements, we need to recognise that making an ethno-nationalist argument in the current climate is very difficult. I'm not saying we should stop making those arguments (in fact the opposite, keep making them) but we should also include and introduce new, and creative ways to market our ideas. If we want to break through to people, and subvert this programming, we need to come at them from a new angle, with a new way of thinking.

P.S. It is pretty funny how our positions, orchestrated through a different lens (Greens, Antifa, FFG), address their concerns better than their own ideology. The fact that we can describe a policy that better serves their needs shows:
1. Their incompetence (or malice, using the issue as cover).
2. The soundness of our world-view.