# Don't Fight The Last War: Turning Political Creativity into Electoral Success

> In politics, nothing is impossible - you just have to find the way forward.

[In other documents](./ideologischer-krieg), I've alluded to the need to be creative/dynamic in our critiques of the status quo. Coming at it from the same old perspective is not going to cut it, we need to evolve. 

Our opposition have the media, education system, corporations, etc on their side. They use these assets for their own political purposes: propaganda, smear campaigns, etc - all serving the goal of knee-capping their opposition. When it concerns nationalists, the establishment has taken decades to program the general public with the tools to detect our traditional talking points, and reject them ('racism bad', 'muh Catholic Church'). However, like all large, establishment forces: they're slow, unresponsive, and struggling to adapt to the world around them. They're a WWI General in command of the Ouvrage Schoenenbourg, with all of their weaponry fixed on a 2004 Hollywood interpretation of "Nationalism".

Why would we continue to fight that same war? Why would we do them a favour by attacking their fortress, when we can simply walk around it? Don't be the right wing Caricature they want you to be, fighting the same battle we have been for decades. Instead, challenge yourself to introduce new ways of looking at the world. Find new, interesting arguments and perspectives that forward our interests. Not only will this test our ideas/world-view against different perspectives, but it will open up a new front in our war with the powers that be. A war that their current defence mechanisms are unable to address. 

For a real-world example of this, one should look at what [Erdoğan and his 'Virtue Party'](https://youtu.be/zvt_jAy5DjA?t=4768) were able to accomplish in the early 2000s in Turkey. Erdoğan rose to power by not only exposing the shortcomings and absurdities of the "Kemalist" world view (Ataturk-ism, essentially Turkish liberalism), but by subverting and flipping traditional issues on their head. They were not reactionary in their attacks of the system, but proactive and creative. They did not default to old, tired arguments to push their vision of an Islamic Turkey; they adopted new vectors of attack, and created new, pragmatic political partnerships. Some of it was provocative: aligning with the left to generate chaos/infighting - others were original, thought-provoking critiques of the foundations of the secular state. Crucially, these critiques/vectors were completely foreign to the political opposition, and the broader public. They had never been exposed to this type of thinking, and therefore had no defence against it. What followed was a gradual expansion, and consolidation of power by Erdoğan. And as I alluded to earlier, the media/establishment didn't have the time to re-propagandise the population, so there wasn't much they could do to stop it.

We can evolve faster than the media/government propaganda machine can react.

### From Opposition to Government: How to Keep, Consolidate, and Expand Power 

Another interesting thought experiment is what should be done once electoral success has been achieved (e.g. you're in government). Whether you're trying to get power, or trying to keep power, the philosophy is the same: Keep your opposition off balance, keep them at the tip of your bayonet. [Never let them regroup, never give them a moment to think or breath](https://youtu.be/0F5zEHVl3tE?t=3105). However, once you're in power, there's less room for mistakes. You need to be efficient, ruthless, and manage the political realities on the ground. Ideally, you will be able to manage short/medium term political maneuvering whilst laying a foundation for long-term goals. 

Take the following legislation as examples on how this might look:

1. **'Combating Religious Extremism'**: Would probably have wide-ranging support, and would force the opposition into a defence of religion (which we also want), so it's effective politically. This would also empower us to go after certain growing religions in Ireland, and particularly unsavoury persons within the Church. Could this also be used against us, and efforts to revive the Church? Sure, but the ROI (return on investment) on knee-capping sinister forces within the country vs potentially hastening an already declining religion is acceptable in my opinion. This also needs to be used to help preserve the 'spirit' of Irish Catholicism. Even if believers fall to 10%, as long as the religion remains intact there is hope of revival. If it's diluted down and perverted, it may be lost forever.

2. **'Combating Foreign Political Interference'**: Same as #1, who would be opposed to this? Would any opposition party or media organisation want to defend foreign political interference? Also, there's only one side of the political spectrum that gets international/NGO money, so we have nothing to worry about. This will be a valuable tool to go after these organisations, and their enablers.
    * This is not limited to NGOs and political donations, but individuals/propaganda as well. If individuals, universities, etc are bringing in American Critical Theory academics, or taking money from foreign actors, those are areas to target.

3. **'Addressing Corruption and Inequality'**: NAMA, the '08 crisis, the housing crisis. There's lots of pent up frustration amongst the public, and unleashing the full power of the state on corrupt Bankers, and Politicians serves many ends. It would fit our platform nicely, would be popular amongst the broader public, and would provide an incredibly effective tool to deal with some of the most sinister forces in Irish politics.

4. **'Decolonising our Immigration and Refugee Programmes'**: The neoliberal world order is a colonial project. Lay out the 'Anti Colonial' case for Anti-immigration and refugee resettlement (coming soon). Ireland has 1 Doctor per 500 people, Nigeria has 1 per 5,000. Emigration from Nigeria, like Ireland, is hallowing out their economy of educated, middle-class people. Liberal GAA fans can pat themselves on the back watching Zak Moradi, yet they completely ignore his [hometown of Ramadi](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QQoJ0LiEOlw). Who will rebuild? Who will create businesses, families, and a future for these countries? Instead, they are encouraged/subsidised to emigrate to satisfy the moral convictions of middle-class Trinners students, and provide multinationals with a cheap, deracinated labour pool. To support immigration, and permanent refugee resettlement is to support the theft of human capital, and the exploitation of these countries. Nigeria, for instance, has historically invested a similar proportion of their budget to education, yet where do all these educated workers go? UK, Canada, Australia, USA, Ireland. As a result, Nigeria is now slashing their education budget. Why invest billions in education when you're not reaping any of the benefits? Our pension system, health service, etc are kept afloat at the cost of developing countries. Ireland has still not recovered from the famine/emigration. How many centuries of stagnation and malaise are we inflicting on these countries by supporting this neocolonial model?