# Utilisation of the Central Bank Balance Sheet and its Implications

This has been a contentious issue of late with the Federal Reserve, Bank of Japan, ECB, etc expanding their balance sheets (albeit some more than others) at an unprecedented rate. The traditional wisdom on this topic would have you believe this 'money printing' is inflationary. However, the reality is: Central Banks (atleast in their current form) do not create money - banks do. For more in-depth information on this, see the 2014 Bank of England [Report on Money Creation](https://www.bankofengland.co.uk/-/media/boe/files/quarterly-bulletin/2014/money-creation-in-the-modern-economy). 

Simply put, the 'inflation' or increase in the money supply (if you want to be completely technical, 'credit creation' - sometimes referred to as 'broad money') happens at the point at which the loan is issued. So, when a Central Bank purchases a non-performing asset from a bank, the actual money supply doesn't increase because no additional money entered the system - it was just a swap of financial assets. The toxic asset from the bank went to the Central Bank balance sheet (where it can no longer do any harm to the financial system), and the bank is recapitalised with bank reserves. It is also important to note that bank reserves != money. In the same way that banks do not loan out 'deposits' (which are also reserves) from account holders, the same is true of these CB derived reserves. Ex.
* When a customer 'deposits' money in the bank, it is really a loan to that bank.
* When a customer takes out a loan from the bank, they are issuing a bond, which the bank purchases with 'created' money. E.g. The money given out becomes a liability, and the bond they hold becomes an asset, with the money supply increasing by the amount of the loan.

We've established that Central Banks don't necessarily drive inflation with their 'money printing'. However, I would like to explore a few theories I have on some of the downstream impacts of these actions.

### Credit Creation and Destruction: Does Bank Recapitalization Drive Inflation?

I suppose it depends on what you consider 'inflation', and on the subsequent actions taken by borrowers/lenders. To borrow Jeff Snider's analogy of the leaky bucket: When the Fed buys a non-performing (toxic, probably not being repayed, bad) asset from a bank, it's not pouring more water into an overflowing bucket, it's just replacing water that leaked out via the 'capital destruction' from the non-performing asset.

Although the specific action of replacing a non-performing asset with bank reserves isn't inflation: If I took out a loan from the bank (inflationary), and then I produce economic value (goods and services) to earn money to pay that loan back (deflationary), then the 'credit lifecycle' was completed. However, let's say I refuse to pay that loan back, the value of the debt on the banks balance sheet plummets, and the bank is in a tough spot. However, the Fed comes along and buys that bad debt from the bank at sticker price. From the perspective of the bank, I've paid back my loan, but from my POV, I have not destroyed any of my capital. I still have all my money, which should have gone to the bank, but the back also has the money that I *would* have given to it. 

It's important to note that these additional bank reserves cannot be lent out, but they do recapitalise the banks, which allows them to turn around and issue new credit. So, in theory, if I have capital, and the bank has the ability it create more capital, it *could* be inflationary. It depends on the situation. 

This makes me think of Richard Koo's theory of 'Balance Sheet Recession'. The financial system always has a 'limiting factor', something that keeps the theoretical 'infinite' nature of compounding interest from going on forever. In a libertarian model, it's the banks that are the limiting factor. Banks need to have sufficient reserves to cover their potential defaults in the system. And when an event like that happens, banks tighten their lending to repair their balance sheet. 
